JMX - OpenTelemetry Docs (#2734)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/integrations/app-development/opentelemetry/jmx-opentelemetry.md

---
id: jmx-opentelemetry
title: Java Management Extensions (JMX) - OpenTelemetry Collector
sidebar_label: JMX - OTel Collector
description: The Sumo Logic App for Java Management Extensions (JMX) allows you to analyze and gain insights about Java applications.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/app-development/jmx.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/>

Java Management Extensions (JMX) is a standard component of the Java Platform. JMX gives developers a standard and simple way to manage resources, including services, devices, and applications. JMX is dynamic, so you can manage and monitor resources as soon as they are created, implemented, or installed.

The Sumo Logic App for **JMX** allows you to analyze and gain insights about Java applications. The dashboards provide a quick glance at various deployment metrics like memory, CPU, GC performance, and thread behavior, so you can troubleshoot unexpected behavior in your Java environment and the applications running in it.

> ## Metric Types
> 
> The Sumo Logic App for JMX collects metrics from Java applications, via the [JMX Receiver for opentelemetry.](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/jmxreceiver)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Metrics types

The Sumo Logic App for JMX collects metrics from Java applications via the [JMX Receiver for OpenTelemetry](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/jmxreceiver).
```

The following types of metrics are collected from JMX:

* Garbage Collection
* Memory
* Memory Pool
* Threads
* ClassLoader

For more information on different metrics collected refer to receiver [docs](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-contrib/blob/main/jmx-metrics/docs/target-systems/jvm.md).

### Sample Query

```sql
sumo.datasource=jmx metric=jvm.memory.heap.used
```

## Fields creation in Sumo Logic for MySQL

  sumo.datasource - Has fixed value of jmx
  jmx.endpoint - The endpoint of the activemq broker

## Prerequisites

The JMX Receiver uses the OpenTelemetry JMX Metric Gatherer. For more details, [see their docs](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/jmxreceiver#details).

> * Download the jar from [releases](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-contrib/releases) and place it in `/opt/` or in `C:\ProgramData`. Remember the path of the jar it will be used in configuring JMX app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Download the jar from [releases](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-contrib/releases) and place it in `/opt/` or in `C:\ProgramData`. Remember the path of the jar, which you'll use to configure the JMX app.
```

  -Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.password.file=<application conf directory>/jmx.password
  -Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.access.file=<application conf directory>/jmx.access
  ```

:::info
Below are docs for popular Java applications:
* [Active MQ](https://activemq.apache.org/jmx)
* [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#remote_jmx)
* [Apache Tomcat](https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-9.0-doc/monitoring.html#Enabling_JMX_Remote)
* [Cassandra](https://cassandra.apache.org/doc/4.1/cassandra/operating/security.html#jmx-access)
* [HBase](https://hbase.apache.org/metrics.html)
* [Solr](https://solr.apache.org/guide/8_3/using-jmx-with-solr.html#configuring-jmx)
* [Zookeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.4.2/zookeeperJMX.html#ch_starting)
:::

## Collecting Metrics and Installing the JMX App

The process to set up collection for JMX Metrics is done through the following steps.

### Step 1: Set up OpenTelemetry Collector

{@import ../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/set-up-collector.md}

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Kafka-OpenTelemetry/Kafka-Collector.png' alt="Collector" />

### Step 2: Configure integration

> In this step we will be configuring the yaml required for JMX Collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, we'll configure the yaml required for JMX Collection.
```

Use this dashboard to:
* Gain insights into Heap and Non-Heap memory usage.
* Identify the Max Heap and Initial Heap size configured for your application to set the appropriate memory switches.

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/JMX-OpenTelemetry/JMX-Memory.png' alt="Memory" />

### Garbage Collector

The **JMX - Garbage Collector** dashboard shows key Garbage Collector statistics like the duration of the last GC run, objects collected, threads used, and memory cleared in the last GC run of your java virtual machine.

Use this dashboard to:
* Understand the garbage collection time. If the time keeps on increasing, you may have more CPU usage.
* Understand the number of objects collected across memory pools and its impact on the Heap memory.

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/JMX-OpenTelemetry/JMX-Garbage-Collector.png' alt="Garbage Collector" />

### Class Loading and Threads

The **JMX - Class Loading and Threads** dashboard shows key information about the number and type of threads deadlocked, peak, and GC threads of your java virtual machine running on the deployment.

Use this dashboard to:

> * Identify abnormal spikes in Threads and Loaded Classes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Identify abnormal spikes in Threads and Loaded Classes.
```

---
id: jmx-opentelemetry
title: Java Management Extensions (JMX) - OpenTelemetry Collector
sidebar_label: JMX - OTel Collector
description: The Sumo Logic App for Java Management Extensions (JMX) allows you to analyze and gain insights about Java applications.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/app-development/jmx.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/>

Java Management Extensions (JMX) is a standard component of the Java Platform. JMX gives developers a standard and simple way to manage resources, including services, devices, and applications. JMX is dynamic, so you can manage and monitor resources as soon as they are created, implemented, or installed.

> The Sumo Logic App for **JMX** allows you to analyze and gain insights about Java applications. The dashboards provide a quick glance at various deployment metrics like memory, CPU, GC performance, and thread behavior, so you can troubleshoot unexpected behavior in your Java environment and the applications running in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sumo Logic app for JMX allows you to analyze and gain insights about Java applications. The dashboards provide a quick glance at various deployment metrics like memory, CPU, GC performance, and thread behavior, so you can troubleshoot unexpected behavior in your Java environment and the applications running in it.
```

> ## Metric Types
> 
> The Sumo Logic App for JMX collects metrics from Java applications, via the [JMX Receiver for opentelemetry.](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/jmxreceiver)
> 
> The following types of metrics are collected from JMX:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Metric types

The Sumo Logic App for JMX collects metrics from Java applications via the [JMX Receiver for OpenTelemetry](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/jmxreceiver).

The following types of metrics are collected from JMX:
```

  Download the jar from [releases](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-contrib/releases) and place it in `/opt/` or in `C:\ProgramData`. Remember the path of the jar it will be used in configuring JMX app.

  Make sure the see the opentelemetry-java-contrib-jmx-metrics version is supported in the opentelemetry version you are using by going through the [releases](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/releases) section  and searching for jmxreceiver in that page or in [supported jars code](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/receiver/jmxreceiver/supported_jars.go#L33).

  JMX Metric Gatherer metric extension supports Java 8+, though SASL is only supported where com.sun.security.sasl.Provider is available.

2. Configure your java application to enable jmx

  In most cases you need to set below system variables in your applications's startup script

  ```-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.port=11099
  -Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.authenticate=false
  ```

>   If you want to set up authentication then set below system variables
> 
>   ```
>   -Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.authenticate=true
>   -Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.password.file=<application conf directory>/jmx.password
>   -Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.access.file=<application conf directory>/jmx.access
>   ```
> 
>   Below are docs for popular java applications:
> 
>     * [Active MQ](https://activemq.apache.org/jmx)
>     * [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#remote_jmx)
>     * [Apache Tomcat](https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-9.0-doc/monitoring.html#Enabling_JMX_Remote)
>     * [Cassandra](https://cassandra.apache.org/doc/4.1/cassandra/operating/security.html#jmx-access)
>     * [HBase](https://hbase.apache.org/metrics.html)
>     * [Solr](https://solr.apache.org/guide/8_3/using-jmx-with-solr.html#configuring-jmx)
>     * [Zookeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.4.2/zookeeperJMX.html#ch_starting)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to set up authentication, you'll need to set the below system variables:

```
-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.authenticate=true
-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.password.file=<application conf directory>/jmx.password
-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.access.file=<application conf directory>/jmx.access
```

 Below are docs for popular Java applications:

* [Active MQ](https://activemq.apache.org/jmx)
* [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#remote_jmx)
* [Apache Tomcat](https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-9.0-doc/monitoring.html#Enabling_JMX_Remote)
* [Cassandra](https://cassandra.apache.org/doc/4.1/cassandra/operating/security.html#jmx-access)
* [HBase](https://hbase.apache.org/metrics.html)
* [Solr](https://solr.apache.org/guide/8_3/using-jmx-with-solr.html#configuring-jmx)
* [Zookeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.4.2/zookeeperJMX.html#ch_starting)
```

## Collecting Metrics and Installing App for JMX

The process to set up collection for JMX Metrics is done through the following steps.

### Step 1: Set up OpenTelemetry Collector

{@import ../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/set-up-collector.md}

> <img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Kafka-OpenTelemetry/Kafka-Collector.png' alt="Collector" />

Reviewer: Should this say JMX, not Kafka?

Author: the image is same so I didn't changed it to reuse it. should I made a copy for it?

Reviewer: Oh good call! nm, it's ok to stay as-is.

### Step 2: Configure integration

In this step we will be configuring the yaml required for JMX Collection.

Below is the input required:

- **JMX Endpoint**: The URL of the broker endpoint (default: `localhost:9092`).
- **Jar File Path**: Enter the path to the OpenTelemetry JMX Metric Gatherer file configured in the prerequisites section.
- **UserName**: Username for JMX authentication, if applicable.
- **Password**: Password for JMX authentication, if applicable.

Click on the **Download YAML File** button to get the yaml file.

> <!-- <img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Kafka-OpenTelemetry/Kafka-YAML.png' alt="YAML" /> -->

Reviewer: do you have the JMX version of this image?

Author: I will update the image for this

### Step 3: Send logs and metrics to Sumo

{@import ../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/send-logs-intro.md}

<Tabs
  className="unique-tabs"
  defaultValue="Linux"
  values={[
    {label: 'Linux', value: 'Linux'},
    {label: 'Windows', value: 'Windows'},
    {label: 'macOS', value: 'macOS'},
  ]}>

<TabItem value="Linux">

1.  Copy the yaml to the`/etc/otelcol-sumo/conf.d/` folder for the Kafka instance which needs to be monitored.
2.  Restart the collector using:
  ```sh
  sudo systemctl restart otelcol-sumo
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Windows">

1.  Copy the yaml to the `C:\ProgramData\Sumo Logic\OpenTelemetry Collector\config\conf.d` folder in the machine which needs to be monitored.
2.  Restart the collector using:
  ```sh
  Restart-Service -Name OtelcolSumo
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macOS">

> 1.  Copy the yaml to the `/etc/otelcol-sumo/conf.d/` folder in the Kafka instance which needs to be monitored.

Reviewer: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation/pull/2734/files#r1254659426
